<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html [
	<!ENTITY thinsp "&#x2009;">
	<!ENTITY mdash  "&#x2014;">
	<!ENTITY ldquo  "&#x201C;">
	<!ENTITY rdquo  "&#x201D;">
	<!ENTITY rsquo  "&#x2019;">
	<!ENTITY nbsp   "&#x00A0;">
]>


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>A Nice Cup of Tea</title>

		<meta name="author"   content="George Orwell"/>
		<meta name="date"     content="12 January 1946"/>
		<meta name="keywords" content="tea"/>

		<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1"/>
		<meta name="HandheldFriendly" content="true"/>

		<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="all" href="tea.css"/>

		<script src="hyphenate.js" type="text/javascript"/>
	</head>

	<body class="hyphenate">
		<header>
			<h1>A&nbsp;Nice Cup of&nbsp;Tea</h1>
			<h2>George Orwell</h2>
		</header>

		<div class="tea">
			<p>If you look up &ldquo;tea&rdquo;&nbsp;in the first cookery book
				that comes to hand you will probably find that it is unmentioned;
				or at most you will find a&nbsp;few lines of sketchy instructions
				which give no ruling on several of the most important points.</p>

			<p>This is curious, not only because tea is one of the main stays
				of civilization in this country, as well as in Eire, Australia
				and New Zealand, but because the best manner of making it is
				the subject of violent disputes.</p>

			<p>When I&nbsp;look through my own recipe for the perfect cup of tea,
				I&nbsp;find no fewer than eleven outstanding points.
				On perhaps two of them there would be pretty general agreement,
				but at least four others are acutely controversial.
				Here are my own eleven rules,
				every one of which I&nbsp;regard as golden:</p>

			<p><em>First</em> of all, one should use Indian or Ceylonese tea.
				China tea has virtues which are not to be despised
				nowadays&thinsp;&mdash;&thinsp;it is economical,
				and one can drink it without milk&thinsp;&mdash;&thinsp;but there
				is not much stimulation in it. One does not feel wiser, braver
				or&nbsp;more optimistic after drinking it.
				Anyone who has used that comforting phrase
				<q>a&nbsp;nice cup of&nbsp;tea</q> invariably means Indian tea.</p>

			<p><em>Secondly</em>, tea should be made in
				small quantities&thinsp;&mdash;&thinsp;that is, in a&nbsp;teapot.
				Tea out of an urn is always tasteless, while army tea,
				made in a&nbsp;cauldron, tastes of grease and&nbsp;whitewash.
				The teapot should be made of china or earthenware.
				Silver or Britanniaware teapots produce inferior tea
				and&nbsp;enamel pots are worse; though curiously enough
				a&nbsp;pewter teapot (a&nbsp;rarity nowadays) is not so bad.</p>

			<p><em>Thirdly</em>, the pot should be warmed beforehand.
				This is better done by placing it on the hob than
				by&nbsp;the usual method of swilling it out with hot water.</p>

			<p><em>Fourthly</em>, the tea should be strong.
				For a&nbsp;pot holding a&nbsp;quart, if you are going to fill it
				nearly to the brim, six heaped teaspoons would be about right.
				In a&nbsp;time of rationing, this is not an idea that can be
				realized on every day of the week, but I&nbsp;maintain that one
				strong cup of tea is better than twenty weak ones.
				All true tea lovers not only like their tea strong,
				but like it a little stronger with each year
				that passes&thinsp;&mdash;&thinsp;a fact which is recognized
				in&nbsp;the extra ration issued to old-age pensioners.</p>

			<p><em>Fifthly</em>, the tea should be put straight into the pot.
				No strainers, muslin bags or other devices to imprison the tea.
				In some countries teapots are fitted with little dangling
				baskets under the spout to catch the stray leaves,
				which are supposed to be harmful. Actually one can swallow
				tea-leaves in considerable quantities without ill effect,
				and&nbsp;if the tea is not loose in the pot it never infuses properly.</p>

			<p><em>Sixthly</em>, one should take the teapot to the kettle and
				not&nbsp;the other way about. The water should be actually
				boiling at the moment of impact, which means that one should
				keep&nbsp;it on the flame while one pours.
				Some people add that one should only use water that has been
				freshly brought to the boil, but I&nbsp;have never noticed
				that it&nbsp;makes any difference.</p>

			<p><em>Seventhly</em>, after making the tea, one should stir it,
				or better, give the pot a good shake, afterwards allowing
				the leaves to&nbsp;settle.</p>

			<p><em>Eighthly</em>, one should drink out of a good breakfast
				cup&thinsp;&mdash;&thinsp;that is, the cylindrical type of cup,
				not the&nbsp;flat, shallow type. The breakfast cup holds more,
				and&nbsp;with the other kind one&rsquo;s tea is always
				half&nbsp;cold before one has well started on&nbsp;it.</p>

			<p><em>Ninthly</em>, one should pour the cream off the milk
				before using it for tea. Milk that is too creamy always
				gives tea a sickly taste.</p>

			<p><em>Tenthly</em>, one should pour tea into the cup first.
				This is one of the most controversial points of all;
				indeed in every family in Britain there are probably two
				schools of thought on the subject. The milk-first school
				can bring forward some fairly strong arguments,
				but I&nbsp;maintain that my own argument is unanswerable.
				This is that, by putting the tea in first and stirring
				as&nbsp;one pours, one can exactly regulate the amount
				of&nbsp;milk whereas one is liable to put in too much
				milk if one does it the other way round.</p>

			<p><em>Lastly</em>, tea&thinsp;&mdash;&thinsp;unless one
				is&nbsp;drinking&nbsp;it
				in the Russian style&thinsp;&mdash;&thinsp;should be drunk
				without sugar. I&nbsp;know very well that I&nbsp;am in
				a&nbsp;minority here. But still, how can you call yourself
				a&nbsp;true tealover if you destroy the flavour of your
				tea by putting sugar in it? It would be equally reasonable
				to put in pepper or salt. Tea is meant to be bitter,
				just as beer is meant to be bitter. If you sweeten it,
				you are no longer tasting the tea, you are merely
				tasting the sugar; you could make a very similar
				drink by dissolving sugar in plain hot water.</p>

			<p>Some people would answer that they don&rsquo;t like
				tea in itself, that they only drink it in order to
				be warmed and&nbsp;stimulated, and they need sugar
				to&nbsp;take the taste away. To those misguided
				people I&nbsp;would say: Try drinking tea without
				sugar for, say, a fortnight and&nbsp;it is very
				unlikely that you will ever want to ruin your
				tea by sweetening it again.</p>

			<p>These are not the only controversial points to
				arise in connexion with tea drinking, but they
				are sufficient to show how subtilized the whole
				business has become. There is also the mysterious
				social etiquette surrounding the&nbsp;teapot
				(why is it considered vulgar to drink out of your saucer,
				for instance?) and&nbsp;much might be written about
				the subsidiary uses of tealeaves, such as telling
				fortunes, predicting the arrival of visitors,
				feeding rabbits, healing burns and sweeping the carpet.
				It is worth paying attention to such details as warming
				the pot and&nbsp;using water that is really boiling,
				so as to make quite sure of wringing out of
				one&rsquo;s ration the twenty good, strong cups of
				that two ounces, properly handled, ought to represent.</p>

			<p><cite class="name">Evening Standard</cite>,
				<time datetime="1946-01-12">12&nbsp;January 1946</time>.</p>

			<p class="attribution">(Taken from <cite>The&nbsp;Collected Essays,
				Journalism and&nbsp;Letters of&nbsp;George&nbsp;Orwell</cite>,
				Volume&nbsp;3, <time datetime="1943">1943</time>-<time datetime="1945">45</time>,
				Penguin&nbsp;<abbr title="International Standard Book Number">ISBN</abbr>&nbsp;<span class="isbn">0-14-00-3153-7</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>

